[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We're at Smiling
Hogshead Ranch.
It's smack dab in the
middle of New York City.
We started as a guerilla garden.
That means we did not ask
permission to be here.
We knew that we
were trespassing,
and we did it anyway.
This is how we obtained
the right to use this land.
The property owner
saw what we were doing
and decided it was a good thing,
and let us continue to do it.
It's been really good to create
this space from a formerly
dumping site, with lots of
illicit types of activity
happening here, and turn it into
a really productive green space
for the city for people to
come, meet with one another,
talk about the issues
that affect their lives
and get their hands,
really, in the dirt.
In terms of community
gardens in New York City,
this is a relatively large one.
And if you look
around the edges here,
you'll notice that
there is no fence.
We're really happy with the fact
that we started this project
with no fence, and that
even when we went official,
and the property owners
wanted us to get a fence,
the people who were
providing us insurance
wanted us to get a fence,
we fought against that idea.
We thought it was a
ridiculous that a place that
had been opened for decades, for
people to dump their trash on,
to come and do illicit
illegal activity,
we thought it was ridiculous
to bar people, now that we've
cleaned it up and
put picnic tables
and made it a nice place to be.
One of the drawbacks is
there is some vandalism,
and sometimes, there's a
little bit of theft, both--
we had some plants laying out
earlier, and a couple of them
got taken home by someone
who didn't ask for them.
And of course, when we
have beautiful plants,
like when those
tomatoes come in,
they're just
irresistible to people.
And they come, and they
take them sometimes,
so we try to discourage that.
One thing that we've actually
instituted this year,
we've created what we
call a compassion patch.
This was actually
a crate that we
got from the dumpster of
a nearby metal fabrication
company.
And we just put it here.
We lined it, and we filled it
with some nice rich compost
mixed in a little
bit of sand and loam,
and we planted some
chives and basil.
There's some bell pepper, a
couple marigolds, some jalapenos
and some cucumbers.
Eventually, we'll
paint on the side,
that this is for people to
pick and for the general public
to enjoy.
We just ask that people don't
pick from our main garden.
And it really is more
of a social experiment
than a by-the-book rules garden.
We're on a railroad site.
We're on an old
post-industrial site.
These railroad tracks were
owned by industry leaders,
industry captains here
in New York City that
ran businesses around here.
So all this that we're
standing on was not here.
This actually used
to be sacred hunting
ground for the Indigenous
American peoples
who would come here
and fish and hunt
and capture animals so
they could bring it back.
There were certain times of
the year where certain plants
and animals were very abundant,
and they would come and meet
their neighbors in these
places and trade rituals
and find mates, even, to
share their lives with.
>> Hi.
>> Hey.
[STREET NOISE]
There is no way
that we are saying
that we're trying to bring it
back to what it used to be,
because we have no pretense of
turning this into a wetland.
But what we try and do is create
a more biodiverse urban ecology
for everyone to live in, to have
an interspecies dynamic going
on.
>> Fungus-- mushrooms are just
like any other microbes that are
in the ground.
So when we're preparing mycelium
to grow mushrooms or what
this is a mother
patch, and we're
going to be using
this for community use
and for our own use.
So this will just be a bed of
mycelium, and we'll take from it
and expand from there.
And the mycelium will be in
competition with other microbes.
So what we do, these barrels
are an anaerobic sterilization
process.
They sit here for two
weeks, soaked in water.
And what I did is I took
woodchips from the barrels,
and I'm going to
fill the bag up.
After I take the mycelium, which
is a warm blue oyster mushroom,
and I'm going to mix it
in with the wood chips.
And now, I'm going
to fill the bags.
And after that is
done, I'm just going
to set the bags aside and
let them do their course
or what we call a spawn run.
And eventually, that will
either be fully inoculated,
or it will actually
produce mushrooms.
So all you do is you
break up the mycelium.
And mycelium is, basically,
the true body of a mushroom.
Mushroom is only the fruiting
body of the whole fungus.
And the only time that mushrooms
come out of the mycelium
is when the mycelium
has eaten all that it--
not needs, but all that
is available to eat
or the environment
changes for some reason.
>> I love compost.
Compost is the building block.
It builds the humus
layer of the soil,
and the soil is the building
block of civilization.
If we don't respect
our soil, then we're
disrespecting ourselves.
We need to build our soil.
We have seven different
types of composting.
We have three-bin systems.
We have windrows.
We have mushroom compost.
We have vermicompost with worms.
We have bokashi-style compost,
which is with microorganisms.
We have leaf mold,
and we have humanure.
This is stropharia, a
species of mushroom,
which we inoculated during
a workshop last year.
Underneath the
fruiting bodies, we
have some really nice
mycelial network forming,
and you can see some
of these hyphae,
growing and holding the
mulch and soil together.
They're also bio remediators.
So right here, we have a
railroad tie and railroad
tracks.
These guys were put here
by the human species,
and they've been off gassing
creosote for decades.
We're using these mushroom
as bio remediators
to take out the
toxins in that wood
and break it down
into more elemental
components, and in some cases,
bioaccumulate in the actual
fruiting body of the mushroom.
Our bokashi-- and what we
do is we collect food scraps
from local businesses
and some residences.
And they pay us on
a monthly basis.
We pick up every week
or every other week,
depending on how
much they produce.
We usually do pick up with our
work trike or our bike trailer.
When we pick up those
buckets, we bring them back.
We can store them on site
for up to a few months,
but we usually dig a trench
and put them in the ground
fairly quickly.
Bokashi is a Japanese-style
of fermenting food scraps.
It uses effective
microorganisms.
So there's three different
types of microorganisms
that don't normally
live together in nature.
But when they're
put together, they
can decompose food scraps
really quickly and effectively,
the whole urban diet.
So everything else-- we don't
take bones, dairy, greasy,
fatty foods.
But with the bokashi, we can.
Every Tuesday, during
the growing season,
we have Terrific Tuesday.
So we get together after
work, around 5 o'clock.
Some people don't
get off to a later,
so it starts to build over
the course of the evening.
And then just before
sunset, we'll take a break,
and we'll have a meal.
It's a potluck
meal, but the garden
do provide a good bit of food.
So we do this every Tuesday.
And what we have been
accomplishing by doing this
is bringing together a
more cohesive community
here in New York City, around
the idea of growing food
together and eating
together, caring
for each other's children, and
just caring for one another.
So this is definitely
like a social permaculture
type of thing, but it's just--
living in such a big
city, moving so quickly,
doing so many things, you become
disconnected with the other.
And when you can slow down and
just pull some weeds or water
some plants and
plant some things
and move some soil around with
some people on a regular basis
and get to know them as
individuals while you're
doing that, it's really great.
This whole area right
here has all been bokashi.
We've buried food
scraps in here,
so we're enriching the soil.
And now it's acting as a nice
planting area for this apple
tree-- this is
actually a pear tree
and some nice annual flowers.
There's a stray parsley
plant over there.
And we're going to get
this looking really nice.
We're in the middle of
construction of a stormwater
catchment system.
So this will be a system
that will capture stormwater
into these 500-gallon
pods over here.
And we can use that to wash
our hands, to clean buckets,
and to water the garden.
But it also serves as
a covered area for us
to have events
whenever it's raining.
One of the things that we
really need here at the garden
is a shelter so that when it's
raining, we don't have to,
all just run home
or leave the garden.
We can actually come
here, wait out the rain,
and then continue
on our Workday,
or continue the workshop,
whatever we're teaching
or learning or playing.
Or whatever we're doing, we
can just continue doing it.
So permaculture, it's not a
strict set of steps to follow.
You have to actually
learn about the place
that you're designing for before
you can actually design for it.
So it actually slows
people down enough
to look at what is
around them, what's
growing around them,
what kind of soil
is under their feet,
what the average rainfall
and temperature is
in their eco region,
and starting to really
understand the biome that you're
in and the microclimates
that surround you.
I think that's really
important, and I
think that's one thing that
permaculture can really bring.
[MUSIC PLAYING]